I mean for for listeners again who don't
know like it wouldn't appear as though
this conversation is couched in your
20-year Journey your your your your
40-year journey as a as a philosophy
Professor
um and a 20-year Journey with high dose
LSD sessions
um and the book that we're we were
referring to earlier is your book on
those Journeys as well as different in a
number of other books
um and I'm just curious because
what I'm seeing in the world
um
which is mostly the world that is
mediated by a screen at this point
um is not the kind of place I really
want to be uh both in I don't both in
the sense of I don't want to be where it
appears we're going I don't want to be a
part of a system that does the things
that it does you know like the I don't I
don't like the fact that I'm a part of
this disgusting distorted thing
and also what I see from the behavior of
the people around me and there's a lot
to be said about how social media
algorithms and and isolation and mental
health crises acknowledged or not are
contributing to this but I see a lot of
toxic Behavior a lot of toxic people a
lot of toxic discussion sort of like
draped in this sort of like uh this sort
of self-confidence self-righteous almost
Machiavellian style like moralism of
like the good versus the evil and the
good is me and anyone that disagrees is
like the violent devil I must cast out
and and whatever else and I don't feel
good about what I'm seeing about the
world and it makes me want to just like
Hide Away inside now yeah
that said
coaching this in psychedelics and
looking at it as as a large
psychedelic I'm using air quotes for
listeners process that's happening
collectively on a global scale not just
with Humanity but we're although we
don't know what the feelings and the
thoughts or perspectives are or the
birds and the salamanders and the and
the whales and whatever you know they're
going through that with us so it's like
a planet it's like a planetary
experience right yeah that when I see
these parts of myself
in a psychedelic session
it's
no more comfortable by any means it's
equally as ugly yeah you know what I
want to hide away from that too and get
you know one of the things you talk
about in your book is that you we need
to learn as a part of the Psychedelic
Journey we need to learn how to not turn
away from our pain or from that pain I
mean like the pain of touching a hot
fire we turn away from but this kind of
pain that we learn to turn towards it
and I'm wondering if you could just
that's not a clear question but can you
just comment on that yeah yeah
you know the starting point of serious
psychedelic work
is taking complete responsibility for
one's own shadow
and uh and you just go into a room close
the door lock the door you're inside by
yourself nothing there but you in your
mind
and you go into the parts of your being
which are
at least initially the most daunting the
most intimidating the most frightening
the ugliest ones we like to acknowledge
the least
uh you know and but the commitment is
there to take that on to enter into it
when we see that ugliness being
manifested in the world around us by
people who are not have not yet taken
responsibility for themselves and they
they are still in this exterior mode
where the the shadow is really outside
of them the evil and the Darkness and
the really ugly things were outside of
them
um
that's a very different world isn't it
and I think this whole process of
breaking down this breaking down process
that we're going into
is basically going to be breaking down
that defense that we have to thinking
that you know we're the good guys or
and the other people are the bad guys
and eventually we're going to have to
come to terms with the fact that weird
we did this
we created this imbalance we have
benefited from it we are continuing to
generate it in the cars we drive and the
lives we live and the lifestyles we
aspire to we have done this we will we
have done it there's going to come a
time eventually where there's no place
else to look but we have to take
individual and Collective responsibility
for the pain that is that is alive
within us in the lives of everyone
around us
that really is a pivot point I think
when we just stop blaming the other
stop blaming previous generations stop
blaming
so on so forth be really settle in we're
not there yet some of us are there yet I
mean I think the Psychedelic Community
understands these things because that's
how you make progress in psychedelic
work is you confront the shadow now
when you go into the work you know that
uh
the more you purify the more you cleanse
the deeper the reward the deeper the
Ecstasy the deeper the teaching
so the more you purify the deeper the
communion once you learn that not only
do you become more comfortable
facing the shadow but you actually
actively embrace the shadow you active
actively Embrace pain and suffering not
because you like pain and suffering but
for two reasons one is because you've
learned that the deeper the purification
the deeper the Ecstasy and you don't
like to suffer but you like what's on
the other side of the suffering but the
second thing is
you embrace the pain and suffering even
knowing that a lot of it is not yours be
out of the same compassion that every
father has for his children every mother
has for her children and every teacher
has for all of their children eventually
that everybody has for other people
and you embrace the pain not counting
whether it's yours or somebody else's
but because by doing so you are helping
somebody you are helping other beings
that you may never meet
and my experiences has been that if you
do that if you are willing to take on
more than your fair share of suffering
you reap more than your sheer benefit
you the universe responds it can't help
but respond and I think that's going to
be happening with us generationally
this generation the Next Generation the
generation after that is going to go
through suffering
more than their share of suffering
compared to previous generations and
after they stop kicking and screaming
and begin to get down to taking it on
and just doing it I think they will
experience the blessings that come from
that deep generosity that that profound
existential choice
to work with the given even when the
given is terrible even when it kind of
crushes your personal life
but you still dedicate yourself to the
good of the whole and in that process
something begins to change something
shifts inside your person and the more
complete the surrender to the process
the more complete the commitment to that
process
I think the deeper and the faster the
transformation is in our individual
lives and our Collective lives so that
as we move deeper into this and come
through it I think
generationally we will learn what every
psychedelic journeyer learns that we
confront the shadow there is riches on
the other side of this ordeal and
there's no other way to get to it
uh and in the end
you see the irony is you kind of end up
where you were in the beginning except
you're all cleaned out you're just all
sorts of this Gunk is out of your system
so you are you
and you were where you were before
but you literally are living a different
life because stuff that you hadn't
realized was compromising you and
burdening you is no longer there
and something new has taken its place I
think that's where we're going to be
going it's going to take time
[Music]